In this lecture, we are going to add support for inner blocks.
A block can act as a container for additional blocks.
Let's look at an example inside the Gutenberg editor.
I'm going to add the buttons block to the page.
After adding this block, we can open the list view sidebar for an overview of the blocks on the page.
The Buttons BLOCK is not a standalone block.
In reality, there are two blocks for creating this UI.
We have a container for adding multiple buttons.
The button block will generate a single button.
It's not uncommon to create this type of relationship for our custom blocks.
WordPress has a component for supporting inner blocks in the resource section of this lecture.
I provide a link to the documentation page for the inner blocks components.
This component will add an area for inserting custom blocks from within a block.
In addition, a button will become available for inserting new blocks.
Feel free to read the documentation after finishing this lecture.
This component offers a few options for customizing the behavior.
Let's give it a try.
In your editor, open the index js file for the team members group block.
Next, let's import the inner blocks component from the WordPress slash block editor package.
After importing this component, scroll to the block's edit function.
We are going to modify the blocks templates inside the div tag with the block prompts variable and the
inner blocks component as a self closing tag.
The inner component works out of the box.
We don't need to provide configuration.
However, I should give you a warning.
WordPress does not allow a block to have multiple locations for inner blocks.
A block may only have one inner blocks component before testing our code.
The save function must be updated to inside the div tag.
Add the inner block dot content component.
The inner block's component has two variations.
The first variation will provide a UI for inserting new blocks, whereas the inner blocks content component
will not add this UI.
It will simply render the blocks inserted into the parent block.
Let's try testing our code.
Refresh the page in the browser.
On this page, I'm going to add the team members group block.
As you can see, we have an empty block upon selecting the block.
A plus icon will appear.
Gutenberg is rendering this icon on our behalf.
We can click this icon to open a dropdown.
By using a single component.
We can easily add blocks to our custom block.
I'm going to add two copies of the team member block.
So far the component works as intended.
However, we should refine the behaviour.
Firstly, we should limit the type of blocks that can be inserted into the current block by default.
All blocks are allowed for the sake of consistency.
Let's limit the blocks to the team member block.
Luckily, the inner blocks component is configurable.
We can adjust the behavior to address both issues.
Let's head back to the code editor.
Scroll to the edit function.
These changes do not need to be applied to the save function.
The inner blocked content component will not handle this behavior in the inner blocks component at a
property called orientation.
This option can have one of two values vertical or horizontal.
The vertical option will add the insert or below the block.
The horizontal option will add the insert or on the sides of a block.
Let's set this option to horizontal.
Next, let's add a property called allowed blocks.
The value for this option can be an array of valid block names.
In our case, we're going to limit the inner blocks component to the utility plus slash team member
lock.
After adding these options.
Let's try testing our block again.
If we were to add blocks to the team members group block, WordPress will automatically insert the team
member block.
We don't get the option of inserting other blocks.
It's quicker than selecting a long list of blocks.
We are running short on time.
In the following lecture, let's keep configuring the block to render a template.